## 0.2.0 (@@YYYYMMDD@@)

Backwards incompatible changes requiring the equivalent of a major version bump
(using semver minor bump since version is still less than 1.0.0):

* [Windows only] Renamed `make.cmd` to `makeit.cmd` so no PATH collision with Make
* [Windows only] Changed OPAMROOT from `$env:USERPROFILE/.opam` to `$env:LOCALAPPDATA/opam`
  New and upgraded local projects will automatically use the new OPAMROOT after you have
  run `./makeit prepare-dev` (or `./makeit build-dev`)

New features:

* [Windows only] Auto-detect existing Visual Studio installations so that no automatic
  installation of Visual Studio Build Tools is performed. That means Administrator
  privileges are not needed if you have Visual Studio with the components that *Diskuv OCaml*
  needs. See `Windows Administrator Installation <https://diskuv.gitlab.io/diskuv-ocaml/doc/AdvancedInstalls/WindowsAdministrator.html>`
  for more details.
* [Windows only] Introduce `vcpkg` as a Windows package manager to supply missing OCaml `depext`
  external dependencies. Limited support is available for Local Projects that have vcpkg manifests.
* Introduce `makeit` for Unix systems so that the same `./makeit` command can be
  communicated for both Windows and Unix users
* [Windows only] OCaml compiler now uses `+options` which enables AFL fuzzing, among other things
* [Windows only] Remove restriction on spaces in directory names
* Speed up creating switches by not auto-installing pinned packages simply because
  they have Diskuv OCaml patches

New patches:

* `ctypes.0.19.2-windowssupport-r3` which is a few commits past `ctypes.0.19.1`
  with a patch to work with Microsoft compiler toolchain.
  Thanks for substantial review and code contributions from @fdopen and @nojb.
* `mirage-crypto.0.10.4-windowssupport` which is a few commits past `mirage-crypto.0.10.3`
  with a patch to make it work with the Microsoft compiler toolchain
* `ocamlbuild.0.14.0` has fdopen@'s patches for MinGW, plus a new patch to let `ocamlbuild -where`
  pass through Windows backslashed paths from `ocamlc -config` without interpreting the backslashes
  as OCaml escape sequences
* `core_kernel.v0.14.2` is not new, but now it is pinned so that the MSYS2 compatible version is
  used consistently
* `feather.0.3.0` patched to work with native Windows

New packages (so that opam's `depext` external dependencies do not need to install anything):

* `vcpkg` the C/C++ package manager for native Windows libraries
* `libffi` from vcpkg lets OCaml packages like `conf-libffi` and `ctypes` use a standardized, cross-platform
  foreign function interface
* `libuv` from vcpkg supplies the Windows implementation for the OCaml bindings package `luv`

MSYS2 changes:
* `pkg-config` was removed from MSYS2 and replaced with the native Windows `pkgconf` from vcpkg.
  `pkgconf` supplies C headers and libraries to the Microsoft compiler and linker with Windows paths.

### Deprecated

* **Cygwin** will be removed in a future release. It is only kept around for troubleshooting filesystem permissions.
* The **MinGW** ocaml/opam Docker image will be removed in a future release. It is present only to compile Opam
  into a native Windows executable, but that compilation can also be done with the Microsoft compiler. If we
  do need anything from MinGW, MSYS2 has a MinGW subsytem that is simple to manage.
* The **fdopen-mingw** repository will be trimmed greatly in a future release. Currently it has multiple versions
  of many packages and its size causes many Opam commands to be slow. A future release will trim each package to
  only one version, and pin that version for reproducible behavior.
